It all started with my current project at my organization, a chatbot application for which we used TensorFlow to process the user FAQ’s queries to get the desired output. Additionally, I created an Alexa skill to toggle my home lights and other equipment using GPS. If creating an application using existing libraries is exciting, how much exciting creating the libraries would be? It created a curiosity to explore Machine Learning in depth.

From school till graduation, I chose subjects which were important and valuable to enhance my study for computers. This captured my interest into programming and motivated me to pursue Diploma Engineering in Information Technology from Thakur Polytechnic. My diploma’s final year project was “Scrubby”, a floor cleaner robot for which I used Embedded C to develop its algorithm to cover most of the surface area.

With clear goal and vision to learn advance computing, I secured admission to the esteemed University of Mumbai in Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology. My final year project was “Crime Reporting and Tracking” which generated a detailed report of the crimes and highlighted areas which has higher crime rate during specific time zone.

I planned to purse Post-Graduation Diploma in Wireless and Mobile Communications from CDAC. The course was rigorous and tailored to focus on practical implementations. I was in top 10 from my department across India. My CDAC project was “Need-a-help!” android app which provided emergency contacts of hospital, ambulance, police, etc. Additionally, we developed a lockscreen containing an emergency button, which sent a message to defined contacts. 

I joined HSBC Technology were we developed software for HSBC Bank. I got chance to implement Staff Front End which was used by HSBC branch employees to facilitate business users and DevOps which was a process optimization in which we made sure that every software delivery is certified error free. We automated end-to-end pipeline using Jenkins. My current project is “Live Chat”, a chatbot application.

With 6.5 years of education, 3.5 years of professional experience in the field of IT and additional 2 years of knowledge from my Masters, I aspire to work as a Data Scientist in top tech companies with people from different cultures and countries and get acquainted with their technical know-how. With this knowledge of technology and culture, I dream to start my own firm which will work in the niche technologies and give back to the community in the form of tutorials and eLearning. Thus, it is with a view to optimizing my existent credentials by acquiring a better perspective I wish to pursue my masters in MS in Applied Data Science.

Applied Data Science course at Syracuse is having a great blend of Machine Learning, data management and business subjects which will help me to understand the business to implement ML solutions. Additionally, Syracuse being a member of the iSchool program, it would increase my potential and ability to share knowledge with other member schools. This is why I feel an MS in Data Science from your institute will lay the foundation to my eventual goal and succeed in giving me.

